Data Engineer
Identify opportunities for process improvements within the team, such as automation and advise on solutions
Build distributed, reliable and scalable data pipelines to ingest and process data analytics in real-time
Develop and implement data pipelines that extracts, transforms and loads data into information that helps to inform others of fraudulent or suspicious behaviours
Translate business and functional requirements into robust, scalable, operable solutions that work well within the overall data architecture
Improve consistency, reduce effort and expand the ability of data scientists to address the growing range of business problems from prediction to prescription
Evaluate and plans software designs, test results and technical manuals
Emerging Functional Skills

Experience in Cloud Computing Platform such as Amazon AWS, Google GCP, Microsoft Azure, S3, EC2
Knowledge of Scrum Methodologies
Knowledge of CI & CD using Jenkins
Experience in Big Data Tools like Qubole, Statwing
Experience with ETL Tool like Pervasive
Key Behavioural Skills

Analytical
Team Player
Methodical
Self Driven
Curious
Prioritizing


Responsibilities of a Data Engineer:
1. Identify opportunities for process improvements within the team, such as automation, and advise on solutions.
2. Build distributed, reliable, and scalable data pipelines to ingest and process data analytics in real-time.
3. Develop and implement data pipelines that extract, transform, and load data into information that helps to inform others of fraudulent or suspicious behaviors.
4. Translate business and functional requirements into robust, scalable, operable solutions that work well within the overall data architecture.
5. Improve consistency, reduce effort, and expand the ability of data scientists to address a growing range of business problems from prediction to prescription.
6. Evaluate and plan software designs, test results, and technical manuals.

Skills required for a Data Engineer job description:
1. Experience in Cloud Computing Platforms such as Amazon AWS, Google GCP, Microsoft Azure, S3, EC2.
2. Knowledge of Scrum Methodologies.
3. Knowledge of CI & CD using Jenkins.
4. Experience in Big Data Tools like Qubole, Statwing.
5. Experience with ETL Tools like Pervasive.
6. Analytical skills.
7. Team player.
8. Methodical approach.
9. Self-driven.
10. Curiosity.
11. Prioritizing skills.

Salary for a Data Engineer in Bangalore with 4 years of experience can vary depending on the company, industry, and individual negotiation. However, on average, a Data Engineer with 4 years of experience in Bangalore can expect a salary range of INR 8-15 lakhs per annum.
